README.md, before:

# ⚔️ SKYRIM COMMAND CODEX ⚔️

A retro 16-bit styled web application for browsing, searching, and copying Skyrim console commands and item codes. Features a comprehensive database of commands, items, perks, shouts, weapons, armor, and more - all wrapped in a nostalgic pixel-art aesthetic.

## ✨ Features

- **🔍 Powerful Search** - Instantly search through hundreds of console commands, items, and codes
- **📂 Category Filtering** - Browse by category: General Commands, Player Commands, Perks, Dragon Shouts, Weapons, Armor, Spells, and Items
- **⚗️ Enchantment Builder** - Interactive tool to create custom enchanted items with up to 2 enchantments
- **📋 One-Click Copy** - Click any command card to instantly copy it to your clipboard
- **📜 Complete Guide** - Built-in tutorial explaining how to use console commands and batch files
- **🎮 Retro Aesthetic** - 16-bit pixel art theme with scanlines, glitch effects, and custom pixel borders
- **📱 Responsive Design** - Works perfectly on desktop, tablet, and mobile devices
- **⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts** - Press `/` to focus search, `ESC` to clear

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Installation

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/yourusername/skyrim_command_codex.git
   cd skyrim_command_codex
   ```

2. Open `index.html` in your web browser - no build process required!

### Usage

1. **Browse Commands**: Use the category buttons to filter commands by type
2. **Search**: Type in the search box to find specific commands, items, or perks
3. **Copy Commands**: Click on any command card to copy it to your clipboard
4. **Build Enchanted Items**:
   - Click the "⚡ BUILDER" category
   - Select an item
   - Choose 1-2 enchantments
   - Copy the generated command
5. **Learn More**: Click "📜 HOW TO USE COMMANDS" for a complete tutorial

## 📁 Project Structure

```
skyrim_command_codex/
├── index.html                          # Main application page
├── guide.html                          # Console command tutorial
├── style.css                           # 16-bit retro styling
├── script.js                           # Application logic
├── skyrim_commands_and_items.json     # Command database
└── README.md                           # This file
```

## 🎯 Command Categories

- **General Commands** - Game settings, toggles, and utilities
- **Player Commands** - Character stats, inventory, and abilities
- **Perks** - All skill tree perks organized by skill
- **Dragon Shouts** - Complete shout words with translations
- **Weapons** - Unique and Daedric weapons
- **Armor** - Dragonscale and Daedric armor sets
- **Spell Tomes** - Magic spell books
- **Items** - Crafting materials, soul gems, jewelry, and more

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

- Pure HTML5, CSS3, and vanilla JavaScript
- No dependencies or build tools required
- Google Fonts: "Press Start 2P" for authentic retro typography
- CSS Grid and Flexbox for responsive layouts
- Modern JavaScript features (async/await, fetch API)

## 🎨 Design Features

- Scanline CRT effect overlay
- Pixel-perfect borders with golden accents
- Glitch text effects on headers
- Smooth animations and transitions
- Custom scrollbar styling
- Toast notifications for user feedback
- Hover effects and visual feedback

## ⚠️ Important Notes

- Console commands disable achievements in Skyrim
- Always save your game before using console commands
- Some commands can break quests or cause instability
- Test commands on a backup save first

## 📝 License

This project is open source and available for personal use. Skyrim and The Elder Scrolls are trademarks of Bethesda Softworks LLC.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to:
- Report bugs
- Suggest new features
- Add more commands to the database
- Improve the UI/UX
- Fix typos or improve documentation

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

- Add more item categories (potions, ingredients, etc.)
- Quest stage commands
- NPC reference IDs
- Location codes for fast travel
- Export favorite commands
- Dark/light theme toggle
- Command history tracking

---

**⚔️ CRAFTED FOR THE DRAGONBORN ⚔️**

*May your roads lead to warm sands, and your console commands never crash your game.*

Commit message:

Enhance contribution guidelines and user interface
- Updated CONTRIBUTING.md to emphasize ordering by usage frequency.
- Added GitHub repository and contribution links to guide.html and index.html footers.
- Introduced a new stat display for command results in index.html.
- Improved styling for footer links and stats in style.css.

README.md, after:

# ⚔️ SKYRIM COMMAND CODEX ⚔️

A retro 16-bit styled web application for browsing, searching, and copying Skyrim console commands and item codes. Features a comprehensive database of commands, items, perks, shouts, weapons, armor, and more - all wrapped in a nostalgic pixel-art aesthetic.

## ✨ Features

- **🔍 Powerful Search** - Instantly search through hundreds of console commands, items, and codes
- **📂 Category Filtering** - Browse by category: General Commands, Player Commands, Perks, Dragon Shouts, Weapons, Armor, Spells, and Items
- **⚗️ Enchantment Builder** - Interactive tool to create custom enchanted items with up to 2 enchantments
- **📋 One-Click Copy** - Click any command card to instantly copy it to your clipboard
- **📜 Complete Guide** - Built-in tutorial explaining how to use console commands and batch files
- **🎮 Retro Aesthetic** - 16-bit pixel art theme with scanlines, glitch effects, and custom pixel borders
- **📱 Responsive Design** - Works perfectly on desktop, tablet, and mobile devices
- **⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts** - Press `/` to focus search, `ESC` to clear

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Installation

1. Clone this repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/myquite/skyrim_command_codex.git
   cd skyrim_command_codex
   ```

2. Open `index.html` in your web browser - no build process required!

### Usage

1. **Browse Commands**: Use the category buttons to filter commands by type
2. **Search**: Type in the search box to find specific commands, items, or perks
3. **Copy Commands**: Click on any command card to copy it to your clipboard
4. **Build Enchanted Items**:
   - Click the "⚡ BUILDER" category
   - Select an item
   - Choose 1-2 enchantments
   - Copy the generated command
5. **Learn More**: Click "📜 HOW TO USE COMMANDS" for a complete tutorial

## 📁 Project Structure

```
skyrim_command_codex/
├── index.html                          # Main application page
├── guide.html                          # Console command tutorial
├── style.css                           # 16-bit retro styling
├── script.js                           # Application logic
├── skyrim_commands_and_items.json     # Command database
└── README.md                           # This file
```

## 🎯 Command Categories

- **General Commands** - Game settings, toggles, and utilities
- **Player Commands** - Character stats, inventory, and abilities
- **Perks** - All skill tree perks organized by skill
- **Dragon Shouts** - Complete shout words with translations
- **Weapons** - Unique and Daedric weapons
- **Armor** - Dragonscale and Daedric armor sets
- **Spell Tomes** - Magic spell books
- **Items** - Crafting materials, soul gems, jewelry, and more

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

- Pure HTML5, CSS3, and vanilla JavaScript
- No dependencies or build tools required
- Google Fonts: "Press Start 2P" for authentic retro typography
- CSS Grid and Flexbox for responsive layouts
- Modern JavaScript features (async/await, fetch API)

## 🎨 Design Features

- Scanline CRT effect overlay
- Pixel-perfect borders with golden accents
- Glitch text effects on headers
- Smooth animations and transitions
- Custom scrollbar styling
- Toast notifications for user feedback
- Hover effects and visual feedback

## ⚠️ Important Notes

- Console commands disable achievements in Skyrim
- Always save your game before using console commands
- Some commands can break quests or cause instability
- Test commands on a backup save first

## 📝 License

This project is open source and available for personal use. Skyrim and The Elder Scrolls are trademarks of Bethesda Softworks LLC.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! This is an open-source project and we'd love your help making it better.

**📜 [Read the Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)** - Learn how to add commands, items, and features

**Quick Start for Contributors:**
- Add new items, weapons, armor, or perks to the JSON database
- Improve documentation or fix bugs
- Suggest new features or enhancements
- Report issues or security vulnerabilities

**Security:** Found a security issue? Please review our [Security Policy](SECURITY.md) for responsible disclosure guidelines.

## 🔮 Future Enhancements

- Add more item categories (potions, ingredients, etc.)
- Quest stage commands
- NPC reference IDs
- Location codes for fast travel
- Export favorite commands
- Dark/light theme toggle
- Command history tracking

---

**⚔️ CRAFTED FOR THE DRAGONBORN ⚔️**

*May your roads lead to warm sands, and your console commands never crash your game.*
